All right we're going to add a cool zigzag design to the top and the bottom of our wood piece.
So we need to create a new document first.
So we're going to go new and or document is going to be pretty small.
So let's start off with 400 by 100 pixels and if we need to go smaller we can.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and grab our Lasso tool and we're going
to go ahead and click here and click down here.
Click here and click down.
We're just going to create a simple zigzag effect.
And once we get over here we don't have enough room.
So what we're going to do is we're just going to end it there and come all the way back and connect
it.
Next we're going to go ahead and fill that in with white.
But make sure you're on a new layer.
Fill that in.
Now we can go ahead and turn this background off because we don't really need to see it.
And then we're going to use our crop tool to crop our document over.
So it comes right to the edge of our third point.
Great.
Next what we want to do is we want to shrink this down just a bit.
Somebody is my Transform Tool.
I'm going to push it up like so.
The reason for that is because behind it we're going to add some green painting.
So I'm going to add in a new layer and then using my paint brush and I'm going to switch over to a more
text Risebrough.
Now I'm not using any brushes are not included with Photoshop so search through these till you find
one you like the one I'm using here is labeled number 24.
I'm going to go ahead and paint with that then I'm going to switch over to a green color so don't come
into my greens a little bit more towards the aquatic side.
And I want it to be somewhat exaggerated but not to be saturated.
So somewhere in here should be good maybe a little bit more saturated.
And then we can go ahead and paint in those edges.
Like so and we want them to look hand-painted that's why we're painting them with this brush right here.
Now these are going to match up with each other on both sides.
When we paint in our patterns we want to make sure that they're relatively similar in width so that
should be a lot closer.
Next we're going to go ahead and select the shape of our zigzag are going to go ahead and push this
selection back.
So we're not pushing that image back.
We're just pushing the selection back.
So too about there should be good.
Then we're going to go ahead and hit delete.
Then we're going to go ahead and duplicate this layer.
Make sure you unselect out of your selection.
Otherwise it's not going to select everything with a duplicate.
So go ahead and duplicate that then we're going to grab this new one and pull it back to about there.
Great.
Now everything that's green on this side we don't want.
So we're going to come back down to our green layer and using our research tool.
We're going to go ahead and erase by hand all of that area that's coming off the wrong side.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want to add a small dot into each one of these triangles so one
to switch over to a yellow color.
So I'm the coming of my yellow's somewhere in there should be good.
Little bit brighter but there should be good.
Then I'm going to go ahead and paint that and using my brush tool and I can stay on this rough brush
if I like or I can switch over to a different brush doesn't really matter.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want to change the color of this inner spike right here.
And the way we'll do that is by coming up to that layer and then we're going to add a new layer above
it change it into a clipping mask and then we can fill that whole layer in with an orange color.
When it comes into our oranges and come pretty saturated to about there.
OK.
And we'll fill that in.
And that changes that to orange.
Now we can go ahead and merge all of these layers together.
And then we're going to go ahead and select it with our marquee tool.
Make sure you're on your rectangular one that will copy and paste it into our document to see what size
it is.
A little bit too large.
So what we're going to do is we're going to shrink it down by about half.
So when you come back in here and then I'm going to come up to image come down to image size select
that and now I can shrink this down.
Now if I had this little chain link right there this is going to help it shrink down and keep its portions.
So I'm going to cut this in half.
So that's 150 plus ten is 160.
Great.
OK.
So now that the shrink that down for us next what we want to do is we want to save this out as a pattern.
So what we're going to do is we're going to come up to it and then come down to define pattern I'm going
to call this zig.
OK.
And now that saved out as a pattern that we can fill areas in with show you what I mean right now.
So let's go ahead and delete this letter and then we're going to add a new layer above this.
And on this new layer I'm going to go ahead and make a rectangular selection like so.
And then I'm to come to my fill tool and up here where it says foreground.
We're going to click on that and change it to pattern and I'll.
Here we get another menu and we can click on that and we have all these different patterns we can choose
from.
Now right over here that's the pattern we just created.
So let's go ahead and select that then we can go ahead and fill in this area and you see it really quickly
fills in that area with our exact pattern and it duplicates it over and over again so we don't have
to do it next.
Let's go ahead and take our marquee tool and what we want to do is we want to slide right up to the
bottom of one of these like so the Leite and then we're going to select right up to the top of it.
So about their number hit delete again.
Perfect.
So now we have a little pattern.
Let's go ahead and place that on the top of our board.
We can nudge it down if we have to.
Now let's go ahead and duplicate this where we can drag this one down like so transform tool and flip
it vertical awesome.
I would say Enter now.
You'll notice that it's not lining up perfectly down here at the bottom.
So what we can do is turn on our transformed tool and we can rotate that until it fits with that right
angle.
Will drag it into place.
Awesome.
Enter next.
Let's go ahead and merge these two layers together and then using my arrays too.
I'm going to go ahead and start erasing some of these aerial ways like this area that's hanging over
our divot.
We don't want that there Biloela or face that.
And same with up here.
So we're going to go ahead and you racist area that's hanging over the edge.
Perfect.
Now in these areas we can go ahead and large the size of our brush to quickly erase it away.
Smith with over here and lastly over here and right here right next let's go ahead and bring down the
opacity.
Just the tiniest bit about there should be good.
And the reason why we're doing that is so you can just barely see the wood texture and grain through
our paint.
Awesome bright.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create a really cool pattern in Photoshop and how to make it look
like it's hand-painted with a paintbrush.
Then you also learn how you can create a small pattern and then have Photoshop duplicate it for you
so you don't have to duplicate it over and over yourself.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.